Newsletters: add 242 (2023-03-15) (#1042)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-03-15-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #242'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/03/15/
name: 2023-03-15-newsletter
slug: 2023-03-15-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Service bit for Utreexo:** Calvin Kim [posted][kim utreexo] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list that software currently designed for
  experimentation on signet and testnet will be using P2P protocol
  service bit 24.  The experimental software provides support for
  [Utreexo][topic utreexo], a protocol for allowing full verification of

>   transaction by software which doesn't store a copy of the UTXO set,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transactions by software which doesn't store a copy of the UTXO set,
```

>   transaction by software which doesn't store a copy of the UTXO set,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  transactions without requiring a local full copy of the UTXO set,
```

>   saving up to 5 GB of disk space compared to a modern Bitcoin Core full

Reviewer 2: note, verified the 5 GB
```
$ du -sh ~/.bitcoin/chainstate/
4.9G	/home/larry/.bitcoin/chainstate/
```

>   node without any reduction in security.  A Utreexo node needs to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  node, without any reduction in security.  A Utreexo node needs to
```

>   receive extra data when it receives a transaction (or a block full of
>   transactions), so the service bit will help a node find peers capable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  receive extra data when it receives a transaction (through either transaction or block relay);
  the service bit will help a node find peers capable
```

  of providing the extra data.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [LND v0.16.0-beta.rc2][] is a release candidate for a new major
  version of this popular LN implementation.

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

> - [Bitcoin Core #25740][] allows a node using [assumeUTXO][topic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #25740][] allows a future node using [assumeUTXO][topic
```

Author: I think this is addressed by a pending change to add a disclaimer to the end of the item: "Other parts of the
  [assumeUTXO project][] still need to be merged before it will be usable."

>   assumeutxo] to download all blocks before the assumed-valid block,

Reviewer 3: Maybe make it a bit clearer that this is a step towards AssumeUTXO, but it's not ready for use yet.  While this PR added important validation logic for assumeUTXO, at least the p2p part to actually download the blocks processed by validation (PR 24008), plus the RPC changes to let a user load a chainstate would still need to be merged for that.

Reviewer: In noting that this is part of the assumeutxo project, I think it would be nice to also work in this link for context https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/11

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I first thought that this was supposed to be the “assume-UTXO” block and a typo, but at second glance, the “assumed-valid” block makes sense. Perhaps the connection of the two should be substantiated.

  verify each of them (including all of their transactions), and build a
  UTXO set (chainstate) as of that block.  If that chainstate is equal

>   to the assumeUTXO state used when the node was first started, then the

Reviewer: If Im understanding the context, "the assumeUTXO state used" seems too opaque to me. Maybe something about matching the value or hash in the source code.

Author: I slightly rephrased this but I don't think it fully addresses your concern.  My take is that I think being more specific about the current plans for the (temporary) source of truth distracts from describing this change and it may introduce confusion.   By mentioning a hash is hardcoded, it seems to imply that trust is involved, but the whole point of background validating the assumeUTXO state is that trust isn't required in the long term.

@bitschmidty as always, if you feel strongly, please feel free to edit before publication.

Reviewer: ACK

Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #25740][] allows a node using [assumeUTXO][topic
  assumeutxo] to verify all blocks and transactions on the best block
  chain until reaching the block where the assumeUTXO state claimed it
  was generated, building a
  UTXO set (chainstate) as of that block.  If that chainstate is equal
  to the assumeUTXO state downloaded when the node was first started, then the
  state is fully validated.  The node has validated every block on the
  best block chain, the same as any other full node, it has just
  validated them in a different order than a standard node.  The special
  chainstate used to perform the verification of older blocks is deleted
  the next time the node starts, freeing disk space.  Other parts of the
  [assumeUTXO project][] still need to be merged before it will be usable.

{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md v=2 issues="25740" %}
[lnd v0.16.0-beta.rc3]: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.16.0-beta.rc3

> [libsecp256k1 0.3.0]: /en/newsletters/2023/03/15/#service-bit-for-utreexo

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[libsecp256k1 0.3.0]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1/releases/tag/v0.3.0
```

Reviewer: Thanks @azuchi ! took the suggestion
